## ili2db

ili2db is a suite of DB tool for managing interlis import/export to relational databases.

## 1. ili2pg


Ili2pg is an interlis 2 loader for postgis DB, it translates the intelis 2 data model definitions to a postgis schema. There are several feature for import and export of data from the DB.

### 1.1 USAGE

java -jar ili2pg.jar [Options] [file.xtf|file.ili]
  
### 1.2 Options
--import               do an import.
--update               do an update.
--replace              do a replace.
--delete               do a delete.
--export               do an export.
--schemaimport         do an schema import.
--dbhost  host         The host name of the server. Defaults to localhost.
--dbport  port         The port number the server is listening on. Defaults to 5432.
--dbdatabase database  The database name.
--dbusr  username      User name to access database.
--dbpwd  password      Password of user used to access database.
--validConfig file     Config file for validation.
--disableValidation    Disable validation of data.
--deleteData           on schema/data import, delete existing data from existing tables.
--defaultSrsAuth  auth Default SRS authority EPSG
--defaultSrsCode  code Default SRS code 21781
--modeldir  path       Path(s) of directories containing ili-files.
--models modelname     Name(s) of ili-models to generate an db schema for.
--dataset name         Name of dataset.
--baskets BID          Basket-Id(s) of ili-baskets to export.
--topics topicname     Name(s) of ili-topics to export.
--createscript filename  Generate a sql script that creates the db schema.
--dropscript filename  Generate a sql script that drops the generated db schema.
--noSmartMapping       disable all smart mappings
--smart1Inheritance     enable smart1 mapping of class/structure inheritance
--smart2Inheritance     enable smart2 mapping of class/structure inheritance
--coalesceCatalogueRef enable smart mapping of CHBase:CatalogueReference
--coalesceMultiSurface enable smart mapping of CHBase:MultiSurface
--expandMultilingual   enable smart mapping of CHBase:MultilingualText
--createGeomIdx        create a spatial index on geometry columns.
--createEnumColAsItfCode create enum type column with value according to ITF (instead of XTF).
--createEnumTxtCol     create an additional column with the text of the enumeration value.
--createEnumTabs       generate tables with enum definitions.
--createSingleEnumTab  generate all enum definitions in a single table.
--beautifyEnumDispName replace underscore with space in dispName of enum table entries
--createStdCols        generate T_User, T_CreateDate, T_LastChange columns.
--t_id_Name name       change name of t_id column (T_Id)
--idSeqMin minValue    sets the minimum value of the id sequence generator.
--idSeqMax maxValue    sets the maximum value of the id sequence generator.
--createTypeDiscriminator  generate always a type discriminaor colum.
--structWithGenericRef  generate one generic reference to parent in struct tables.
--disableNameOptimization disable use of unqualified class name as table name.
--nameByTopic          use topic+class name as table name.
--maxNameLength length max length of sql names (60)
--sqlEnableNull        create no NOT NULL constraints in db schema.
--strokeArcs           stroke ARCS on import.
--skipPolygonBuilding  keep linetables; don't build polygons on import.
--skipPolygonBuildingErrors  report build polygon errors as info.
--keepAreaRef          keep arreaRef as additional column on import.
--importTid            read TID into additional column T_Ili_Tid
--createBasketCol      generate T_basket column.
--createFk             generate foreign key constraints.
--createFkIdx          create an index on foreign key columns.
--createUnique         create UNIQUE db constraints.
--ILIGML20             use eCH-0118-2.0 as transferformat
--dbschema  schema     The name of the schema in the database. Defaults to not set.
--oneGeomPerTable      If more than one geometry per table, create secondary table.
--log filename         log message to given file.
--gui                  start GUI.
--trace                enable trace messages.
--help                 Display this help text.
--version              Display the version of ili2pg



## Credits

_Developed by Eisenhut Informatik AG, CH-3401 Burgdorf 
 See http://www.interlis.ch for information about INTERLIS
 Parts of this program have been generated by ANTLR; see http://www.antlr.org
 This product includes software developed by the
 Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/)._